README.md, before:

# Klipper-WS281x_LED_Status
This script will take the printer status from Klipper/Moonraker and apply different effects to a WS281x LED strip.

The code has been migrated from the OctoPrint-WS281x_LED_Status (https://github.com/cp2004/OctoPrint-WS281x_LED_Status) plugin to work with Klipper.

----

## Directions for use

1. Clone/copy code to files on Raspberry Pi running Klipper and Moonraker
2. Make script executable
   1. ```chmod 744 ./klipper-ledstrip.py```
4. Install prerequsits 
   1. ```pip3 install requests rpi_ws281x adafruit-circuitpython-neopixel```
5. Change values in settings.conf (LED pin, colors, reverse)
6. Optionally, change effect called for standby, paused, and error states in settings.conf
7. If you want to run it manually, start script before starting print (otherwise use the service below)
   1. ```./klipper-ledstrip.py```

## Directions to run as a systemd service

1. Copy contents of ledstrip.service to /etc/systemd/system/ledstrip.service
2. Modify User, Group, WorkingDirectory, and ExecStart to match your setup
3. Run ```systemctl daemon-reload``` to enable the service
4. Run ```systemctl enable ledstrip``` to have the service start on boot

### Single run for static colors
#### Will only work by itself, not if running as a service

```
./klipper-ledstrip.py <red> <green> <blue> <brightness:optiona>

Example:
  ./klipper-ledstrip.py 255 255 255 255 ## Full brightness white
  ./klipper-ledstrip.py 255 0 0 ## Red with default brightness specified in the script
```

#### To call from gcode shell commands (thanks to [JV_JV](https://www.reddit.com/user/JV_JV/) for the setup directions)
Add custom entries to printer.cfg 

```
[gcode_shell_command led_off]
command: ./home/pi/my_klipper_ledstrip.py 0 0 0
timeout: 2.
verbose: True

[gcode_shell_command led_white]
command: ./home/pi/my_klipper_ledstrip.py 255 255 255
timeout: 2.
verbose: True

[gcode_shell_command led_purple]
command: ./home/pi/my_klipper_ledstrip.py 255 0 255
timeout: 2.
verbose: True

[gcode_macro LED_OFF]
gcode:
    RUN_SHELL_COMMAND CMD=led_off

[gcode_macro LED_WHITE]
gcode:
    RUN_SHELL_COMMAND CMD=led_white

[gcode_macro LED_PURPLE]
gcode:
    RUN_SHELL_COMMAND CMD=led_purple
```

----

rpi_ws281x library instructions for needed changes depending on GPIO pin used: https://github.com/jgarff/rpi_ws281x

Commit message:

Update readme for modifying settings

README.md, after:

# Klipper-WS281x_LED_Status
This script will take the printer status from Klipper/Moonraker and apply different effects to a WS281x LED strip.

The code has been migrated from the OctoPrint-WS281x_LED_Status (https://github.com/cp2004/OctoPrint-WS281x_LED_Status) plugin to work with Klipper.

----

## Directions for use

1. Clone/copy code to files on Raspberry Pi running Klipper and Moonraker
2. Make script executable
   1. ```chmod 744 ./klipper-ledstrip.py```
4. Install prerequsits 
   1. ```pip3 install requests rpi_ws281x adafruit-circuitpython-neopixel```
5. Change values in settings.conf (LED pin, colors, reverse)
6. Optionally, change effect called for standby, paused, and error states in settings.conf
7. If you want to run it manually, start script before starting print (otherwise use the service below)
   1. ```./klipper-ledstrip.py```

## Directions to run as a systemd service

1. Copy contents of ledstrip.service to /etc/systemd/system/ledstrip.service
2. Modify User, Group, WorkingDirectory, and ExecStart to match your setup
3. Run ```systemctl daemon-reload``` to enable the service
4. Run ```systemctl enable ledstrip``` to have the service start on boot
5. Run ```systemctl start ledstrip``` to start the service

## Directions to change settings

1. Modify settings in settings.conf
2. Run ```systemctl restart ledstrip``` to restart the ledstrip service

### Single run for static colors
#### Will only work by itself, not if running as a service

```
./klipper-ledstrip.py <red> <green> <blue> <brightness:optiona>

Example:
  ./klipper-ledstrip.py 255 255 255 255 ## Full brightness white
  ./klipper-ledstrip.py 255 0 0 ## Red with default brightness specified in the script
```

#### To call from gcode shell commands (thanks to [JV_JV](https://www.reddit.com/user/JV_JV/) for the setup directions)
Add custom entries to printer.cfg 

```
[gcode_shell_command led_off]
command: ./home/pi/my_klipper_ledstrip.py 0 0 0
timeout: 2.
verbose: True

[gcode_shell_command led_white]
command: ./home/pi/my_klipper_ledstrip.py 255 255 255
timeout: 2.
verbose: True

[gcode_shell_command led_purple]
command: ./home/pi/my_klipper_ledstrip.py 255 0 255
timeout: 2.
verbose: True

[gcode_macro LED_OFF]
gcode:
    RUN_SHELL_COMMAND CMD=led_off

[gcode_macro LED_WHITE]
gcode:
    RUN_SHELL_COMMAND CMD=led_white

[gcode_macro LED_PURPLE]
gcode:
    RUN_SHELL_COMMAND CMD=led_purple
```

----

rpi_ws281x library instructions for needed changes depending on GPIO pin used: https://github.com/jgarff/rpi_ws281x
